[narrator]
First you fall in love.
Then you confess it.
Ask anyone, and they’ll say
this is a wonderful thing.
But they are so very wrong.
[fast‐forwarding]
Even with the cutest...
...side that takes...
...winner and a loser‐‐
[normal] Love is no game!
It’s war!
Whoever gives their heart first
will be conquered.
[Japanese music playing]
Hmm?
Where’d this come from?
Oh, the principal
confiscated that magazine
from a student here,
said it doesn’t belong
in a school,
so we should toss it.
It’s weird, though.
Why didn’t he
just trash it himself?
I wonder why he thinks
it doesn’t belong here.
[wails]
‐ I’m scarred!
‐ [buzzer]
No! I mean I’m scared
for the future of our country!
[Shirogane] Why is
she freaking out?
Are there naked chicks
in that thing?
[narrator] And suddenly
Shirogane is very interested.
‐ [murmuring]
‐ What’s the fuss about?
A survey asks people
how old they were
for their first time,
and the results revealed
34% did it in high school.
I don’t believe it!
There’s no way
that many teens have
crossed that threshold!
[narrator] 34%!
Over a third have tasted
the forbidden fruit,
which means that
in a class of 30 students,
10 have already done it.
And statistically, so has
one of the three in this room.
[Fujiwara] I bet it’s
higher than it should be
because the only people
who took the survey
are the ones
who like to read this stuff.
[Shirogane] Right.
It’s the sample selection bias.
That number’s way too high
to be accurate.
Oh, for sure.
[both laugh]
[Shinomiya] You think so?
34% seems accurate enough to me.
‐ [gasps]
‐ Eh?
Actually it’s rather low.
Okay, so I’m fairly positive
the answer’s no,
but are you saying this
’cause you’re in that 34%?
Yes, have been for some time.
[shrieks]
Ah. Aomori’s area code,
it’s 017. How neat.
It’s a perfectly normal thing
for high‐schoolers
to partake in.
The two of you
must not have been raised
in very loving environments.
[both gasp]
‐ [murmuring]
‐ I was planning on getting
a boyfriend later,
rather than sooner,
but maybe I should rethink that.
‐ Interesting.
‐ Then again, my dad
probably wouldn’t
like that very much.
[narrator] There’s a sense
of urgency about them,
and Kaguya
hasn’t failed to notice.
When people think they’re
falling behind socially,
it motivates them
to do something about it,
even if it means
risking their dignity
by confessing their love,
for example.
[gasps]
Am I a late bloomer?!
Shinomiya, date me, please.
Is this my chance?
[narrator]
Oh, looks like someone
found her objective
for the day.
This is so stupid.
What’s wrong, President?
Aren’t you what most people
would consider to be popular?
[narrator] She instigates.
Yet you don’t have
a girlfriend, do you?
She instigates more.
Well...
no, I don’t have that kind
of relationship with any girl...
not right now.
[narrator] Good save.
By saying, "Not right now,"
Shirogane can imply he had
a girlfriend at some point
without outright
lying about it.
The word "now" has been
abused in every language
to dodge every manner
of awkward question.
Of course he’s never
had a girlfriend.
Though that’s not
for lack of offers.
In fact, he’s had quite a few.
But for reasons
unknown to him,
the only girls
who seem to be interested
are as odd as he his,
if not more so.
He may be weird,
but he’s not that weird,
so he’s never felt compelled
to ask one of them out.
[yelps]
[choir singing]
[Shirogane] Being this popular
is both a blessing and a curse.
[narrator] He sees
the quantity of interest,
not the quality and has
become quite self‐assured,
despite having zero experience
in the love department.
[sighs] These poor girls
are driven mad
by their lust
for my brilliance.
Should I feel guilty?
[narrator] Yeah. The only thing
sturdier than his chastity belt
is his delusional confidence.
‐ As a result, he’s become...
‐ Not right now.
‐ a virgin monster!
‐ [growl]
Oh, in that case...
But even monsters
have weaknesses.
...haven’t done it yet.
[narrator] And as we all know,
being called a virgin
is a virgin’s kryptonite.
My first instinct is to lie,
but anyone
with actual experience
would see right through me.
I’d be like a movie newb
trying to pass himself off
as a film buff
to a real film buff.
Suppose I tried it.
Oh, yeah, I do it all the time.
[Shinomiya] Aren’t you
trying a bit too hard?
Sounds to me like you’re
just too embarrassed
to admit what
a clueless virgin you are.
[gasps]
You really are quite cute.
She’d know for sure.
Uh, uh...
I’m really not one
to do it and tell.
[narrator] He resorts
to a half‐ass bluff.
Why so secretive?
[cup clinks]
I’m well aware that you
have a cute little sister.
I bet you do it with her
all the time, don’t you?
Oh, that.
You see...
Of course not!
You crazy sicko!
But you two are family.
It’s natural.
Why, I just did it
with my newborn nephew.
I even captured it on video.
A baby?!
Those were some good times.
[gags]
Intimacy isn’t
something you should fear,
regardless
of what you’ve been told.
[sighs] Why must modern society
warp these things?
Society’s fine!
It’s you and your family
that are warped.
[Shinomiya] What about
your dog Pesu, Fujiwara?
You must do it
with him all the time.
What?! Do you?!
Please don’t drag me and Pesu
into this mess!
Who knew the Shinomiya family’s
way of life was this horrific?
She’s not living in a bubble.
She’s living in a nightmare.
Uh...
Shinomiya...
quick question for you.
Are you sure you know what
the term "first time" means?
[sighs]
What do you take me for,
President?
Even ladies like me are
knowledgeable about such things.
It’s your first kiss.
[kiss, kiss]
Honestly.
[narrator] Kaguya is an heir
to a business conglomerate,
meaning sex education
wasn’t part of her upbringing.
Far from it.
She was taught
that people kiss,
but that’s all she was taught.
Anything beyond that
was a mystery
that she didn’t know
needed solving.
You’re saying the stork
doesn’t get involved?
[narrator] The world
surrounding her
might as well be
a windowless black box.
So no, she has no idea
what someone’s first time is.
It’s fine.
I’ll take this one, President.
Uh...
Can we talk for a sec?
Hmm?
"First time" can mean
lots of things,
but in this case...
Then...
Next...
After that...
Some people...
Then there’s also...
And finally...
like wild animals...
[film whirring]
[revelatory music playing]
[gasping]
[Shinomiya] Okay, but...
you’re not supposed
to do that stuff
until after you’re married,
right?
[groans]
This girl is gonna kill me.
[panting]
[narrator] Results
for today’s battle,
Shinomiya loses...
some of her innocence.
Shirogane...
there’s no need
for us to get close,
so would you
please leave me alone?
[wind blowing]
[pen scraping]
It’s really quiet tonight,
isn’t it?
Yeah, it is.
I’m sure it would be louder
if Fujiwara hadn’t gone home
early to walk her dog.
I love you, Pesu!
As for Ishigami, like always,
he was out
before I noticed he was in.
And yet he somehow manages
to maintain perfect attendance.
[music playing]
You know, Shinomiya,
you’ve really grown
over the past few months.
[gasps] Are you saying
I gained weight?
No, I was talking
about your personality.
You’ve opened up, is all.
I guess you’re right.
I’ve been making an effort
to be more personable.
‐ Hmm?
‐ I’m glad that it shows.
It does, indeed.
Though part of it might just be
that I understand you better.
Think you’re a puzzle
I’m starting to solve.
So you have me
all figured out, do you?
I see.
Intriguing.
We’ve been working together
on the student council
for the past six months,
so, yeah, I’d say
I know you fairly well.
[chuckles] Let’s put
that claim to the test.
‐ Test?
‐ Mm‐hmm.
You’ve piqued my curiosity.
Let’s see if you know me
as well as you think.
So tell me, do you know
the game, 20 questions?
[narrator] Twenty questions!
A game in which one player
gets 20 questions
to guess what the other player
is thinking of.
The catch is that the guesser
can only ask questions
that can be answered
with a yes or no.
If they answer correctly
within 20 questions,
the guesser wins.
Failure results
in the other player’s victory.
Although 20 questions almost
seems too easy, don’t you think?
Especially for someone
who understands me
as well as you do.
So why don’t we halve that
and give you 10 questions
to get it right?
Fine by me.
You’re on.
Shall we start?
We shall.
[Western music playing]
[Shirogane]
Ten questions, it is.
One, have you chosen
something tangible?
Yes. It isn’t merely a word
or a concept.
Two, is it
an electrical appliance?
No.
Three, would you consider it
to be significantly warm
or cold?
Yes.
Hmm.
Considering her answers,
it could be
some kind of animal,
food, hot water, ice,
fire, or a myriad
of other things.
However, since this is meant
to test my understanding
of Shinomiya,
the answer must be connected
to her somehow,
which means...
Four, is this thing
a possession of yours?
‐ No.
‐ [gunshot]
Five, is it something
you touched today?
‐ No.
‐ [gunshot]
Then six, could I find it
at your house right now?
‐ No.
‐ [bullet ricochets]
That makes three noes in a row.
I thought it would be
some trinket of hers,
but I guess I was wrong.
I’ll just have to explore
her mind further.
Okay, seven,
do you happen
to like this thing?
[gunshot echoes]
I do.
[sighs]
What the hell’s
with that face?!
She is blushing,
full‐on blushing!
Does that mean
she’s embarrassed?
Why would she
be embarrassed unless..
[wind blows]
unless...
Eight, might this be
a living thing?
[gunshot]
[gasps]
[sighs] Yes, it’s alive.
I was right.
It’s me.
She’s talking about me.
Okay, calm down
and get it together.
You need to confirm.
I’m something tangible.
I’m not
an electrical appliance.
I’m relatively warm.
Shinomiya doesn’t own me,
nor has she touched me today,
and I’m obviously
not in her house.
It all matches.
Then there’s the part
about her liking the thing.
Hold on.
Is this
a roundabout confession?
’M‐kay,
nine, tell me,
in what way do you
like this thing?
Uh, as a good friend?
As a human?
Or as more maybe?
I can’t answer that.
Remember, you can only ask me
yes‐or‐no questions.
Crap!
I got so worked up
that I wasted a shot!
It’s fine. Keep your head.
There’s still a chance
that you’re missing something.
All right, last question.
Is it something
both intelligent and handsome,
with piercing eyes
and blondish hair?
[sighs]
Mm‐hmm.
It’s me!
[theme music playing]
It’s me. It’s really me.
You are something else.
Thinking up such
a roundabout way to confess.
It’s been a long war.
We put each other
through a lot.
But it’s thanks to those
trying times that I finally...
‐ [music slows, stops]
‐ understand...
you.
[sighs]
That was your tenth question,
President.
Can you guess
what I’m thinking of?
I think I can.
I do know what kind of person
you are to an extent.
And, well...
My answer is...
[gasps]
a dog.
[groans]
Congratulations.
You did it. Yay.
[Shirogane] Specifically
Fujiwara’s dog, Pesu.
[Shinomiya]
Shall we go home now?
It’s getting pretty late
after all.
Uh, good point.
[narrator] Results
for today’s test,
he passes.
[narrator] Once again,
Kaguya’s part
of the Shinomiya family,
one of Japan’s leading
business conglomerates.
Her life
was planned out for her
from the day she was born.
She doesn’t often get
to enjoy the freedom to choose,
not even for trivial things.
‐ [kids chatting]
‐ ...got free ice cream.
2,574, that’s
the number of times
she’s gazed out
of a fancy car’s window
on the way to school.
[birds chirping]
But then, one day...
Is that a cat?
‐ [growls]
‐ Yes.
It unfortunately lodged itself
in there fairly deep.
Please allow me
just a few more minutes.
I’ll arrange for another car
to take you to school.
It’s all right. I’d rather walk
than wait around.
At least let Hayasaka
go with you.
Sure, I can do that.
[gasps]
But I would have
to change clothes first.
She’d wind up being late.
I think she can manage
walking to school by herself.
You see? Nothing to worry about.
I’ll be fine.
Uh, but, Lady Kaguya!
I’ll see you later.
[laughs]
[sighs]
[narrator]
The morning sun is shining
a little brighter than usual
for Kaguya today.
[gate creaks]
[peaceful music playing]
All right, this might just be
the only chance I ever get
to go to school on foot,
so I’m going to milk it
for all it’s worth.
Let’s see.
If I recall, the President
rides his bike to school
from Setagaya,
which means Meiji Street
is probably the route he takes.
He barely makes it
by the time the bell rings,
so if I wait by the bridge,
I’m almost positive
our paths will cross.
[chuckling]
[crying]
[crying continues]
I better hurry, or I won’t
catch the president in time.
[sighs] What’s wrong?
If you’re
in some sort of trouble,
sum it up
as concisely as you can.
It’s the crosswalk.
What about it?
Here. Take my hand.
I’ll cross it
side by side with you.
[girl whimpers]
[beeping]
[gasps]
Okay. You can let go of me now.
There are more, more crosswalks
on my way to school.
[groans]
[peaceful music playing]
[Shinomiya] I’m curious.
How were you getting to school
before today?
We had walking groups.
Yeti was the one who always
held my hand when we crossed.
Like the Abominable Snowman?
Yeah. It’s her nickname.
Her real names Ienaga.
But now that we graduated
to the upper grades,
we don’t walk to school
in groups anymore,
so I’m on my own.
[stifled crying]
[sobbing]
She may have
physically advanced,
but her mind is still
that of an infant’s.
I definitely had
a better head on my shoulders
when I was her age.
I don’t wanna be alone!
Yeti should be with me!
‐ [crying]
‐ [gasps]
Listen.
Just because
you aren’t officially
walking to school
in groups anymore
doesn’t mean
you have to go alone.
Hmm?
You should try meeting friends
somewhere in between
or at each other’s houses.
Then you can walk together
just like you want.
Right?
[gasps] That’s a great idea!
You’re some kind of genius?
[laughs] Sometimes.
[girl] Mikiti!
[Mikiti laughs]
Hey, Yeti!
Well, what are you
waiting for? Go on.
’Kay.
[signal beeping]
Thank you for helping me,
genius lady!
[laughs]
[Yeti] Were you
surprised to see me?
Yeah, but in a good way.
[laughter]
[Mikiti] Walking together
is more fun.
Uh‐huh!
Right. Now where am I?
8:25.
No way I’ll make it.
[sighs]
If they find out I was late,
I won’t get to walk to school
by myself again.
This will be
my first and last chance.
At least
I finally got to try it.
One time is better than none.
[laughter]
Would have been nice
to have some company, though.
[panting]
[tires squeal]
‐ President?!
‐ What the‐‐
You should already
be at school by now!
The morning bell’s gonna ring
in just a few minutes!
But you’re just as late as I am.
I’m not late!
I haven’t been tardy
a day in my life.
But there’s no way you’re
gonna make it on foot.
If you were walking,
you should have left sooner!
As members of
the Shuchiin Student Council,
we should never be late.
Hop on.
We gotta book it.
So we can’t be late,
but it’s fine
to violate traffic laws?
School rules take priority
over traffic rules in this case,
so hush up and get on!
[chuckles]
[wheels whizzing]
[gasps]
[peaceful music playing]
[narrator] The cat‐tastrophe
was solved by the next day,
and she returned
to her normal routine.
[laughter]
‐ Can I come over later?
‐ Yeah! Of course!
But sometimes...
she would reminisce about
that special day and smile.
[school bells chiming]
[singing in Japanese]